# Level 200 - Week 2 - Back End

In the second week of this project you are creating the API for your Video website.

## How to read this guide

Below are separate headings for each endpoint. Each of them are separated into the `HTTP Request Method` type and the route that the endpoint should exist on.

For a recap on about HTTP Request Methods you can read here
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods

For example, for the first endpoint

- `GET` is the request method
- "/" is the route

On Line 8 of `server.js` you can find an example of the first endpoint that you will need to make.

## Project

Before starting this project you should run these commands to install the project

```sh
cd server
npm install
```

to run the server you can use

```sh
npm run dev
```

To confirm your server is running go to

```url
http://127.0.0.1:5000/
```

in your browser. If the server is running you'll see a message saying

```json
{ "express": "Your Backend Service is Running" }
```

## Sample Solution

Here is an example solution for the Back End:

https://video-rec.herokuapp.com

## Endpoints

Your website should have the following four endpoints.

### `GET` "/"

This endpoint is used to return all of the videos

#### Example Response

See `exampleresponse.json`

### `POST` "/"

This endpoint is used to add a video to the API.

Both fields - title and url - must be included and be valid for this to succeed.

**Note:** When a video is added, you must attach a unique ID to so that it can later be deleted

#### Expected Data

```json
{
  "title": "",
  "url": ""
}
```

#### Example Response

If successful:

```json
{
  "id": 523523
}
```

If not successful

```json
{
  "result": "failure",
  "message": "Video could not be saved"
}
```

### `GET` "/{id}"

Returns the video with the ID contained within the `{id}` parameter

#### Example Response

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Never Gonna Give You Up",
  "url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ",
  "rating": 23
}
```

### `DELETE` "/{id}"

Deletes the video with the ID container within the `{id}` parameter

#### Example Response

If successful:

```json
{}
```

if not successful:

```json
{
  "result": "failure",
  "message": "Video could not be deleted"
}
```
