# Level 100 - Week 1 - Intro

What we will do the first week is something called an MVP - a Minimum Viable Product. This would be the bare minimum of features which is actually working. It will likely not be nice, but it can already be shown to your peers to check and comment on.

The MVP for the project we are doing is the ability to show a list of pre-defined videos to the user.

We will split this MVP into three parts - the data model, the API and the frontend. We will work on those separately over in subsequent levels.

## User stories

Both before we start we need to describe what we want to achieve. One way to do that is using user stories.

A definition of user stories from [Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/project-management/user-stories) is the following:

> A user story is an informal, general explanation of a software feature written from the perspective of the end user or customer. The purpose of a user story is to articulate how a piece of work will deliver a particular value back to the customer.
>
> User stories are often expressed in a simple sentence, structured as follows:
>
> `As a [persona], I [want to], [so that].`

Let's try to define user stories for our MVP:

- As a CYF trainee I want to show my favourite videos so my friends know what videos I like
- As a friend I want to see my friend's recommended videos so I can watch them myself

You can also go down with a bit more detail:

- As a friend I want to see the title of each video so I know what the video is about
- As a friend I want to be able to go to YouTube by clicking any of the titles so I can actually watch the recommendation

This is what we will define as the MVP and what we will try to implement during the first week

## Checking out the project

We have set up an initial project for you to help with some of the complexities of the assessment. This project requires Node.JS version 20 or later. Make sure you have at least Node version 20 running:

```sh
node -v
```

The version number should be `v20.6.0` or higher:

```
v20.8.0
```

If this is lower, like `v18.18.2`, or `v20.5.5` you will need to install a more recent version of Node.JS. Refer to the [node installation guides](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager) for your operating system. For Ubuntu based systems [NodeSource](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions) is usually a good way to do it.

Once you have confirmed that your node version is recent enough you can install the requirements:

```sh
npm install
```

Then to start up the system you can run

```sh
npm run dev
```

To confirm your server is running go to

```url
http://127.0.0.1:3000/health
```

in your browser. If the server is running you'll see a message saying

```json
OK
```

## Before you commit your changes

Read this [article on .gitignore](https://sabe.io/blog/git-ignore-node_modules). We have set up a basic `.gitignore` file for you.

## Monorepo

The project is set up to run as a monorepo, where both the client's and the server's code are in the same git repository and are linked together. When doing monorepos there are some boilerplate code required to make sure both the frontend and the backend application can work at the same time and on the same URL. To kickstart your development we have set up this boilerplate code for you already. Feel free to look at the code, but generally you won't need to edit them at all if you follow the proposals on this guide.

If you are interested you can read more about what they do in the following places:

- [Client vite settings](../client/vite.config.js)
- [Server frontend middleware](../server/app.js)

## Next Level

Once finished you can go to [Level 110](./110.md)
