# Level 120 - Week 1 - Backend

Level 120 will continue the MVP of our small site that shows video links to the user. The next step is getting our backend working.

## Database

Your code is expected to read data from the database we have set up earlier. In order to make sure it works you will need to make sure that the backend is configured for database access.

There are two steps you need to do:

1. Copy the `.env.example` file over to `.env`

This file contains the settings for your application. Currently the only setting you need is the `DATABASE_URL` setting that looks like the following:

```
postgres://username:password@localhost:5432/database_name
```

Make sure you swap the `username`, `password` and `database_name` values with the database details that you have set up _locally_ during the Initiating local database step in level 110.

2. Start using queries inside the api.

The `api.js` file is already set up to connect to the database if the config is done properly. To query the database you can use requests like:

```js
const response = await db.query("SELECT * FROM videos WHERE id = $1", [id]);
```

## Endpoint

For this level you need to design an endpoint that will list all videos. Endpoint designs are usually separated into the `HTTP Request Method` type and the route that the endpoint should exist on. For a recap on HTTP Request Methods you can read this guide here: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods

### `GET` "/videos"

For example, for the first endpoint

- `GET` is the request method
- "/videos" is the route

Inside `api.js` you can find an example of the first endpoint that you will need to make.

**Note:** The project is set up so all backend endpoints will have `/api` as a prefix. This means for example that if you are asked to create a `GET /videos` endpoint that will actually be available at `http://127.0.0.1:3000/api/videos`

This endpoint should be used to return all of the videos in the database to the user

#### Example Response

See [`example_response.json`](data/example_response.json) as an example. This should be returned with a HTTP `200` status code.

**Note:** The example above is likely the most simple one that you can do. If you wish to implement some optional features later, like support for error handling, you can deviate from it as you like.

## Running locally

Don't forget you can start up your server locally by typing

```sh
npm run dev
```

Your endpoint should be accessible at `http://127.0.0.1/3000/api/videos`

**Note:** the backend will not automatically restart whenever you change your code, you need to stop the server running and restart it every time you want to see your changes.

## Deployment

Finally you will need to deploy your application. The demo project is already set up to work with Netlify, so please follow the [Netlify deployment guide](https://cyf-curriculum.netlify.app/guides/deployment/netlify/) to deploy your app. Make sure to read the notes on backend deployment as well.

Don't forget to set up the the database access during setup - you should connect the deployed app with the Supabase database you deployed during [level 110](./110.md).

## Example

Please check https://lvl120--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app/api/videos for an example solution of this level

## Next Level

Once finished you can go to [Level 130](./130.md)
