# Level 210 - Week 2 - Adding new videos

Your website is getting better and better every day. You feel good, and decide to watch some tutorial videos on YouTube. One of them catches your eye and decide to add it to your video recommendations. However you realize, that currently the only way to add new items is to edit the database. That's not too convenient, so you set up to change this!

## New endpoint

Any action that changes the database needs to be implemented on the backend. This means implementing a new endpoint!

### `POST` "/videos"

This endpoint is used to add a video to the API.

**Note:** When a video is added, you must attach a unique ID to it so that it can later be deleted

#### Example input

```json
{
	"title": "The Title",
	"url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ABCDEFGHIJK"
}
```

#### Example Response

```json
{
	"id": 523523
}
```

**Note:** You don't need to adhere to the examples above. In fact if you started working on the level 199 feature "Proper error handling" you will likely going to use a different response.

## New component

Now that you have the endpoint created you need to add a new React component to your website that allows you to add new videos.

## Data validation

After adding the features above you soon realize you can easily create invalid videos, and they break your website. You decide to make sure you disallow this!

When a video is added, make sure that the title is not empty and that the url is a valid YouTube URL.

You should first implement this feature on the backend. The HTTP status code standard for invalid input is usually `400` or `422`, which you should return instead of a `200` in case the data is invalid.

Once this is implemented in the backend you can also add the data validation on the frontend as it makes it for better user experience.

## Deployment

Once you finish with your changes, and merge your code, make sure it is accessible on Netlify as well, so you can show it to your friends!

## Example

Please check https://lvl210--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app for an example solution of this level

## Next Level

Once finished you can go to [Level 220](./220.md)
