# Level 220 - Week 2 - Deleting videos

With your new feature in place you are now starting to add a lot of videos. You soon realize your recommendations start to grow huge, and some of the videos you don't really want to recommend anymore. This is a good time to implement a new feature to allow them to be deleted!

## New endpoint

Same as before, this needs a new endpoint!

### `DELETE` "/videos/{id}"

This endpoint is used to delete a specific video from the database.

`DELETE` endpoints don't require a request body, and they don't even need to return a response body. While you can return a confirmation message, if you don't want to, then you can use HTTP status code `204` to tell the client that the action was successful, but there is nothing to respond with.

To make the endpoint nicer, you can also change it so if you try to call this endpoint on an `id` that doesn't exist, the system may respond with a HTTP `404` status code designating that the video did not exist in the first place, or was already deleted.

## New component

Now that you are able to delete videos through the API, you need to add a button to the video components that will delete those videos by calling the relevant API we made earlier.

## Deployment

Once you finish with your changes, and merge your code, make sure it is accessible on Netlify as well, so you can show to your friends!

Make sure to show your work to your classmates and ask them to test your app. You should also set aside some time and help test their applications as well in return.

## Example

Please check https://lvl220--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app for an example solution of this level

## Next Level

Once finished you can either check the optional features at [Level 299](./299.md) or continue with the[Week 3](./300.md) exercises
