# Level 300 - Week 3 - Allow rating of videos

You pass around your project among your friends, and they definitely like it better than the first version you showed them last week. They are really enthusiastic and want to let you know which videos they also liked, and which they didn't! You therefore decide to implement ratings - allowing your friends to give your videos either a thumbs up, or a thumbs down!

## New data model

You soon realize there is nowhere to store the ratings of a video yet, so you'll need to change the database schema. There are two steps to do this:

1. Edit `db/initdb.sql`

First you should edit your database initialization script so it now includes support for the ratings of the videos. Once you do that you can now run this against your local environment, and now you have a data model that can store ratings!

2. Create a migration file

However on your production system this would be a destructive action - all of your existing recommendations would be lost if you run the whole initialization script again. That's why you should create a database migration file! A database migration file is a short script that allows you to update only the details in the database that you need. For this example, it would:

- Add a new rating column to your table that stores videos (search the Internet for `ALTER TABLE` on examples on how this can be done)
- Update all existing videos in the system to have a rating of `0` by default.

Name it for example `db/01-add-ratings-support.sql`. Once you have this file ready make sure to run it against your production database.

**Note:** Sometimes database migrations need to be run at the same time as a deployment is made, as the old codebase only works with the old data model, and the new code only works with the new. This is usually risky, so if possible it's advised to create code that (at least temporarily) works with both the old and the new data model, and only once this code is deployed run the migration. Do note that for the simple website we are making it is likely that the old code would still work with the new data model (at least it will not break), so feel free to try it out locally to check all existing features are still fully operational.

**Note:** An other alternative to updating the `initdb.sql` script is to keep the `CREATE TABLE` past inside it as-is, but add the migration code we created to the end of the file.

## New endpoint

Once we have the new data model ready we need to add a new endpoint, or new endpoints to support this new feature. For this exercise we will not tell you how the endpoint should look like and it will be up to you to design it based on your previous knowledge.

**Note:** Once you submit your solution feel free to have a chat with your cohort on why you designed your endpoint the way you did. There are multiple different ways to solve this problem, each with their own pros and cons, so it's a good idea to discuss your idea with others.

## New component

Now that you have the endpoint created you need to add a new React component (or modify an existing one) that allows you to rate videos up, and down.

## Deployment

Once you finish with your changes, and merge your code, make sure it is accessible on Netlify as well, so you can show it to your friends!

## Example

Please check https://lvl300--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app for an example solution of this level

## Next Level

Once finished you can go to [Level 350](./350.md)
