# Level 100 - Week 1 - Defining requirements

In the first week, we will build an MVP - a **Minimum Viable Product**. This is a product with the bare minimum of features to demonstrate a concept to an end user. It will likely not be nice, but it can already be shown to your peers to check and comment on. The MVP for the project we are doing is the ability to show a list of pre-defined videos to the user.

We will split this MVP into three sections - the data model, the API and the frontend. We will work on these sections separately in the `requirements`.

## User stories

Both before we start we need to describe what we want to achieve. One way to do that is using user stories.

A definition of user stories from [Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/project-management/user-stories) is the following:

> A user story is an informal, general explanation of a software feature written from the perspective of the end user or customer. The purpose of a user story is to articulate how a piece of work will deliver a particular value back to the customer.
>
> User stories are often expressed in a simple sentence, structured as follows:
>
> `As a [persona], I [want to], [so that].`

Let's try to define user stories for our MVP:

- As a CYF trainee, I want to show my favourite videos so my friends know what videos I like
- As an end user, I want to see my friend's recommended videos so I can watch them myself

You can also go down with a bit more detail:

- As an end user, I want to see the title of each video so I know what the video is about
- As an end user, I want to be able to go to YouTube by clicking any of the titles so I can watch the recommendation

This is what we will define as the MVP and what we will try to implement during the first week

## Next Level

Once finished you can go to [Level 105](./105.md)
