# Level 110 - Week 1 - Data Model :model

Level 110 will start the MVP of our small site that shows video links to the user. The first step is designing how we will store these videos in the database.

## Designing the data model

Make sure you design the data model that will hold the video recommendations. You need to make sure that you can store at the following details:

- Name of the video
- Link to the video

You also need to make sure that each of the video can be uniquely addressed by some kind of an `ID`.

Inside the `db` directory you will need to create a script called `initdb.sql`. Add any relevant `CREATE TABLE` calls that you need. We will call this your schema.

## Initiating local database

Once you have your schema ready, make sure you create a new database for yourself locally. For example, let's call it `videorec`. From a shell use `createdb` to create a new database for yourself:

```bash
createdb videorec
```

Once it is created you can now try to load your file into the database using `psql`:

```bash
psql -d videorec < db/initdb.sql
```

**Note:** Depending on how postgresql was installed for you, you might need to add some connectivity details to both `createdb` and `psql`:

```bash
psql -h localhost -U username -d videorec < db/initdb.sql
```

In this example, we ask postgres to connect to your local database through `localhost` and use `username` as the user.

## Re-running the script

It is advised to make sure that the `initdb.sql` script can be run multiple times, and each run would reset the database to a known initial state. One way to do it is to add some SQL code to the start that would delete tables in case they exist, something like:

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS videos CASCADE;
```

Try running your `initdb.sql` script multiple times with the `psql` code above to make sure every time you get a fresh and clean database without errors.

## Sample data

It is also a good idea to make sure you have some example data in the database. Please check [the example data](./data/example_data.csv), and modify your `initdb.sql`, and add the relevant `INSERT INTO` calls that will add all of this example data every time you run `initdb.sql`.

## Deploying the database

Please follow the [Supabase deployment guide](https://cyf-curriculum.netlify.app/guides/deployment/supabase/) in the curriculum to register and deploy your database. After finishing the steps make sure you load up the `db/initdb.sql` there as well. You should also take note of the `DATABASE_URL` as you will require it during the deployment of the next level.

## Next Level

Once finished you can go to [Level 120](./120.md)
