# Level 210 - Week 2 - Adding new videos 📹

Your website is getting better and better every day. You feel good and decide to watch some tutorial videos on YouTube. One of them catches your eye and decide to add it to your video recommendations. However you realize, that currently the only way to add new items is to edit the database. That's not too convenient, so you set up to change this! Enhance your website's functionality by enabling users to add video recommendations directly and improving user experience.

## New Requirements

### 1. New Endpoint Definition

#### HTTP Method: `POST`

#### Route: `/api/videos`

#### Acceptance Criteria

- There is a `POST /api/videos` backend endpoint to facilitate adding videos to the database.
- The endpoint generates and attaches a unique ID to each newly added video.
- The endpoint accepts video data in JSON format (example provided).
- The endpoint responds with a JSON response that includes the generated id (example provided)

#### Example POST payload

```json
{
	"title": "The Title",
	"url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ABCDEFGHIJK"
}
```

#### Example API response

```json
{
	"id": 523523
}
```

### 2. Adding videos in the frontend

#### Acceptance Criteria

- There is a user-friendly form for capturing new video recommendations
- The form supports fields for video titles and YouTube URLs

### 3. Data Validation

**Backend Validation**

After adding the features above you soon realize you can easily create invalid videos, and they break your website. You decide to make sure you disallow this!

When a video is added, make sure that the title is not empty and that the url is a valid YouTube URL.

You should first implement this feature on the backend. The HTTP status code standard for invalid input is usually `400` or `422`, which you should return instead of a `200` in case the data is invalid.

#### Acceptance Criteria

- Ensures submitted titles are not empty.
- Validates provided URLs as legitimate YouTube URLs.
- Returns an appropriate HTTP status code (e.g., `400` or `422`) for invalid input.

## Frontend Validation (Optional)

### Acceptance Criteria

- Implements frontend validation mirroring the backend checks, offering immediate user feedback.

**Resources**

- **Data Validation:** Consider resources on handling input validation in your chosen backend and frontend frameworks.

## Deployment

### Acceptance Criteria

- Changes must be reflected on the Netlify deployment after code merge for demonstration.

**Example Solution**

- [https://lvl210--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app](https://lvl210--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app)

**Next Level**

- Proceed to Level 220 ([./220.md])
