# Level 300 - Week 3 - Allow rating of videos 👍 👎

You pass around your project among your friends, and they like it better than the first version you showed them last week. They are enthusiastic and want to let you know which videos they also liked, and which they didn't! You therefore decide to implement ratings - allowing your friends to give your videos either a thumbs up, or a thumbs down!

Empower your users to express their preferences by implementing a video rating system (thumbs up/thumbs down).

### Acceptance Criteria

- Each video displays its current rating in a visually clear manner (e.g., thumbs up /thumbs down icons, numeric display).
- Users can increase the rating of a video ("thumbs up").
- Users can decrease the rating of a video ("thumbs down").
- A user's rating actions are recorded and persist across sessions.

**Usability**

- The rating controls are easily discoverable and intuitive to use.
- Visual feedback (e.g., icon changes, updated counts) confirms a user's rating actions.

#### Optional Enhancements

- Display Changes: Consider whether ratings should immediately update the displayed value or require a page refresh to see changes.-
  Prevent Multiple Votes: Explore options to limit users to a single vote (up or down) per video.

## Update your data model

You soon realize there is nowhere to store the ratings of a video yet, so you'll need to change the database schema. There are two steps to do this:

1. Edit `db/initdb.sql`

First you should edit your database initialization script so it now includes support for the ratings of the videos. Once you do that you can now run this against your local environment, and now you have a data model that can store ratings!

2. Create a migration file

However on your production system this would be a destructive action - all of your existing recommendations would be lost if you run the whole initialization script again. That's why you should create a database migration file! A database migration file is a short script that allows you to update only the details in the database that you need. For this example, it would:

- Add a new rating column to your table that stores videos (search the Internet for `ALTER TABLE` on examples on how this can be done)
- Update all existing videos in the system to have a rating of `0` by default.

Name it for example `db/01-add-ratings-support.sql`. Once you have this file ready make sure to run it against your production database.

**Note:** Sometimes database migrations need to be run at the same time as a deployment is made, as the old codebase only works with the old data model, and the new code only works with the new. This is usually risky, so if possible it's advised to create code that (at least temporarily) works with both the old and the new data model, and only once this code is deployed run the migration. Do note that for the simple website we are making it is likely that the old code would still work with the new data model (at least it will not break), so feel free to try it out locally to check all existing features are still fully operational.

**Note:** Another alternative to updating the `initdb.sql` script is to keep the `CREATE TABLE` past inside it as-is, but add the migration code we created to the end of the file.

## New Endpoint

### Acceptance Criteria

- Design and implement a new endpoint to manage updating video ratings. You will need to think about the following questions:
- what path endpoint do I need to use for the endpoint?
- what method do I need to use for the endpoint?

## New Component

### Acceptance Criteria

- Create a new React component (or modify an existing one) to visually represent the rating system (thumbs up/down).
- Enable users to interact with this component to submit video ratings.

## Deployment

### Acceptance Criteria

- Deploy changes to Netlify and ensure the rating functionality is accessible.

## Example

- [https://lvl300--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app](https://lvl300--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app)

## Next Level

- Proceed to Level 350: ./350.md
