# Level 399 - Week 3 - Making your project a good portfolio piece (Optional)

If you've done a good work with this project you might want to showcase it as one of your portfolio items that you can show to prospective employers. However before you do that you need to make sure that your website is likely going to look and work nice if anyone opens it up in the future, even if you haven't touched it.

## Automatic reset of the database

The current website allows anyone who opens the site to add and remove videos. We have done this to keep the complexity of the assessment at a certain level. However this means anyone stumbling upon your website will be able to play around. While most will likely be legitimate users, like employers looking at what you've done, others might be bad people, who would fill in your website with junk and juvenile content, like swear words, or harassing comments.

To decrease the chance that these data would show up for prospective employers we should set up a system that resets the database around every 30 minutes. In this case, even if someone malicious finds your website, the contents on it would be deleted soon, while still allowing legitimate users to play around with your website.

### Secrets

We will introduce a new feature that will only work if a specific secret is provided. We need to store this secret somewhere, and one common way are environmental variables. In fact we have already used them when setting up the `DATABASE_URL` value (this value contains the password to the database which like all passwords are a secret).

We will need to make another one, let's name it `RESET_CODE`. Make sure you generate a strong, and random password (for example 16 characters of random letters and numbers) and store it in your password manager. Never share this value with anyone! Once you have done this, make sure to do the following changes:

1. In Netlify, go to the environment variable settings for your project. This should be in the same place where you needed to add the `DATABASE_URL` value earlier. Make sure to create a new variable called `RESET_CODE`, and set it up with the random password you generated earlier.
2. In GitHub go to your project page, then click "Settings" at the top. Once on the settings page scroll down to "Secrets and variables" and then "Actions". Once there click "New Repository Secret", and add the `RESET_CODE` here as well.

By setting this up like that Netlify and GitHub now has a shared secret between them, that only they know. We will use this later to make our endpoint more secure.

It is also advised to change the `.env` and `.env.example` files adding a new line to them with the following content:

```sh
RESET_CODE=1234
```

This will set up our secret as `1234` for local development, so we can easily test that that it works. Never use production secrets on your local environment however!

### New endpoint

Once we have the secret, and we shared it, we just need to start using it. Let's create a new endpoint with the following details

- Endpoint: `POST /videos/reset`
- Input: `{"code":"<secret code>"}`
- Action: if called with the correct secret code it should run the contents of `initdb.sql`
- Response: HTTP `200` or similar in case the code is correct and the database could be reset. HTTP `403` otherwise.

**Note:** Obtaining the contents of the `initdb.sql` is not trivial, to help you out the following code below will work on both local and Netlify deployments:

```js
let initDbLocation;
if (process.env.LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT) {
	// on Netlify added contents from netlify.toml are stored under LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT
	initDbLocation = path.resolve(process.env.LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT, "db/initdb.sql");
} else {
	// when running locally we'll simply find the file relative to api.js
	const __dirname = path.dirname(fileURLToPath(import.meta.url));
	initDbLocation = path.resolve(__dirname, "../db/initdb.sql");
}
const schemaSql = await readFile(initDbLocation, "utf8");
```

### Cron jobs

Cron jobs are jobs that run on scheduled intervals. One example you can see in `/.github/workflow/reset-server.yml`. Make sure to uncomment the schedule part, which will run the whole code every 30 minutes. If you wish to use another schedule you can find [here some example cron settings](https://crontab.guru/examples.html) that you can replace the pre-set one with.

Also look at the last line. This line will call your production endpoint we created earlier submitting the secret code in the body. Make sure to change this line so it actually points to your real endpoint that you have deployed in Netlify.

### Notification

It might be worth adding a notification to your frontend that tells visitors that this is only a demo application, and all content on it will be purged every 30 minutes.

### Deployment

Once you add the changes above and commit it to GitHub you should go to the "Actions" tab, and then select "Reset Server" from the actions on the left side. There will be a button called "Run workflow". Press it, and your action should be triggered. Make sure it does work as intended - once it's run your website should be reset to the initial state. If not, check the logs to find out what might have gone wrong. You should also wait half an hour and check that the cron has run successfully as well without you needing to touch it.

**Note:** Supabase will disable your database if it was not accessed in the last 7 days. However by adding the cron job above you make sure that the database is kept active, as your database will receive activity every 30 minutes. This allows you to keep this project in your portfolio without worrying that it gets disabled.

### Example

Please check https://lvl399--cyf-fsa-solution.netlify.app for an example solution of this level

## Next Level

Once finished there are some final improvement ideas you can check on [Level 499](./499.md)
